+++
slug = "acquiring-the"
title = "Acquiring the Right Eating Behavior"
category = "Education"
language = "en"
author = "Korcan"
weight = 60
keywords = []
draft = false
written_at = "2016-04-09"
[params]
available_at = "2017-10-06"
thumb = "https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/otsimo-en/img/Acquiring.jpg"
+++

# Acquiring the Right Eating Behavior

Early diagnosis of autism in children suffering from autism, especially before the age of three, is significant. Because at this point, the most beneficial aspect is that the sooner the child starts to receive special education, the faster and more efficient the results will be. The child with autism should receive a special education program prepared by experts, 20 to ideally 40 hours a week in order to acquire right eating behavior in long term period.

Besides special education, in order for children to acquire necessary skills to sustain their daily lives with minimum help from outside, occupational therapies should be performed as support. Eating skills are among the most important daily skills for daily life of a child. While the quality of life of a child with autism that has eating skill significantly rises, the life gets easier for members of the family around the child.  Although some children with autism are able to feed themselves, they may prefer doing it however they would like to do. And when you try to change this, they may react and resist to changing their own way. If you want your child to use spoon while eating, you should implement a positive routine as soon as possible, when you can.


  1. _Try eliminating distractions, this way your child can focus on the important point more easily. For instance, turn off the radio or TV. If there is noise coming from outside, close the window._
  2. _You child should know where to eat. It would not be the right to let them eat wherever they want to. Your child should acquire this positive routine in the most suitable place. For instance at the kitchen and on dinner table._
  3. _Encourage your child to use spoon during a meal once. Then, slowly increase the number of encouragements to use spoon during other meal times. For them to be accustomed to this positive routine that you want them to learn and apply, make sure to practice this process at this speed. _
  4. _Helping your child by standing behind and holding his hand to use the spoon would help the process._


Some children with autism might not be able to grasp the limits during eating and we may have to teach them certain things should be done at certain times. Pre-school children who have not received special education on eating generally show behaviors like eating snacks or eating while watching TV, playing games or walking around the house. At this point, the child should be taught that eating has a time and certain place; it should be done in kitchen or on a table. Your child should learn the limits and grasp the idea that there is a start, middle and finish phases to a meal. In order to teach this positive routine, you should also comply with the routine and be patient and organized.

Just like many other social skills that we have related to eating, this skill is also pretty important. Families should be able to take their children with autism out to a restaurant without a doubt. Remember to not be so strict about snacks, but also make sure to determine a place and time and include them into positive routine. A child that knows when and where to eat a normal meal and a snack will better understand what he is supposed to do and comply with the rules more easily. When your child starts to make progress in this matter, it will be easier to teach him many other social skills based on food.

 

**Sources:**

http://www.autismni.org/behaviour-and-daily-living-skills.html?page=2

https://www.tohumotizm.org.tr/yontemler
