+++
slug = "esleme-tr"
title = "Advice for Parents with Children with Autism"
category = "Autism"
language = "en"
author = "Korcan"
weight = 60
keywords = ["Eşleme", "Oyunu"]
draft = false
written_at = "2016-04-09"
[params]
available_at = "2017-10-05"
thumb = "https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/otsimo-en/img/Advice.jpg"
+++


# Advice for Parents with Children with Autism

Raising a healthy child is every parent’s wish in life. After the children are born, they may not have any physical problem but later on they may develop mental disorders. Autism is one of these disorders. Parents generally see autism symptoms in the first 3 years of age and most consultation occur in this period. First problems they come across are their children’s unresponsiveness when called, giving late response and having difficulties in social interactions.

If the child is 6 months of age and does not smile, after 9 months shows no mimics or makes a sound, after 1 year of age does not articulate certain sounds or lacks certain moves, after 16 months has not yet said a word and after 2 years of age cannot combine words or shows decline in attained development, the child should be further assessed.


The most basic feature seen in children with autism is _passiveness_; they are generally by themselves and do not show reaction. Many children with autism do not make eye contact and show repetitive behaviors like constantly rocking back and forth, clapping hands or making certain sounds. They start taking later than they generally should. Even they start talking, they make mistakes while using elements, pronouns and repetitive words.

If autism seen in the child is getting severe, this can be observed via clinical pictures. Some children with autism may show signs of _superior intelligence_ and have successful academic life despite having trouble with adapting to society. When these individuals become adults, they can take care of themselves thanks to their mental abilities. Some cases may even show_ above-average intelligence_ and they can achieve great success with this intelligence in science or art. Despite that, some children with autism may have_ low mental functionality_; if these cases cannot have speech development until the age of 6 months, they are diagnosed with retardation.

The cause of autism is still not known to this date, however the experts suggest that it results from_ functional and structural defects stemming from central nervous system_. Autism is a congenital disorder; the belief that it results from parents’ behavior is a common but wrong one.

A mental health expert should extensively assess mental abilities of children meeting criteria listed above. After diagnosis, special educational programs should be started immediately. Education process should always progress under the guidance of a pedagogue. If the child is showing hyperactivity or problem behaviors, medication can be used.

Parents have a great role after diagnosis. When their child is diagnosed with autism, they may feel upset; it would be both wise and motivating to get psychological support in these situations. Parents with children with autism should always take care of themselves well and be positive around their children. This strong stand is important for mental health of their child. If the child is positively affected, allowing harmless routines and acting accordingly would be beneficial.

All information relating to the child’s problems should be obtained from experts or reliable sources; otherwise the situation might become worse.

Keeping in touch with support groups for other parents that also have children with autism is always helpful. Education process of the child should be closely monitored; parents must be involved in the process and pave the way for mental development of their child.

Parents should realize the limit of their child’s mental development and act in line with it. Even though autism is not curable, they should remember that many autistic individuals could have problem-free and healthy life with the right education and early treatment methods. They can achieve great success in life.

 

**Sources:**

http://www.osmansabuncuoglu.com/AnaBabalara/%C3%87ocukta_otizm.htm - Assoc. Dr. Osman Sabuncuoğlu
