+++
slug = "alternative-treatments"
title = "Alternative Treatments for Children with Autism"
category = "Education"
language = "en"
author = "Korcan"
weight = 60
keywords = []
draft = false
written_at = "2016-04-09"
[params]
available_at = "2017-10-04"
thumb = "https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/otsimo-en/img/Alternative.jpg"
+++


# Alternative Treatments for Children with Autism

It is seen that at least one method of most complementary and alternative treatments have insufficient or unpublished affects on 74% of children diagnosed with OSD.

**Complementary and alternative biomedical treatments in autism are listed below in an article dated 2013. **

On this page, you can find complementary and alternative treatments in autism. In this article applications that are not in biological group, like music therapy, yoga, acupuncture, animal-assisted therapy, sensory integration, chiropractic, are not mentioned.

#### Biomedical Treatment in Autism


Nutraceutical/biomedical/complementary and alternative treatment methods are frequently used in autism. However, scientific proof of them is scarce. In biomedical treatments, the treatment goes like this: 1) completion of the deficits 2) eliminating disadvantages 3) breaking the vicious cycle. Many different institutions and individuals suggest these treatment methods. Should you choose them, this process is recommended to be managed by children and metabolism teams at the hospital for the sake of security and health. As doctors state, who already apply and suggest these approaches, these treatments do not promise to fully cure the child but every child can show development.

These types of treatment are not recommended if there is no medical record on child’s poisoning or having deficits. In case they are chosen, they are recommended to be used as complementary besides the follow-up of child psychiatrist and educational treatment. Although there is some weak evidence to their success, these methods that are proven to be not harmful can be applied depending on the choosing of the parents.

It is known that when they take their child to child doctor, psychiatrist and neurological examination, parents, for some various reasons, omit the fact that they are looking for alternative treatment methods or do not open up by themselves. Although the reason is they are afraid of the doctor’s reaction, sharing all information on what the child is using or going through with the doctors carries vital importance.

  * ### Imported Alternative Drugs

Frequently asked questions are listed under this topic.

Unfortunately, autism spectrum disorder is a group disorder that may cause complicated diseases from diabetes to different tables. Its genetic, biological and environmental causes are under the ever-growing list of causes. With studies, everyday we get new information. However, going for not proven treatment methods for any reason creates a risk on this subject that we already have enough on our hands. Child and adolescent psychiatrists apply current medication treatments, and education is the main treatment whose success is proven in autism. Drugs are only used to increase the adaptation of the child to life, make daily life easier, determine some targets and increase the wellbeing of the parents. There is no proven drug therapy that targets nuclear family.

For a drug to be used to eliminate a diagnosis or a symptom, it needs to go through a long period of research. This research process that consists of phase 1-2-3-4 gives out vital information on if the drug shows the wanted effect, side effects, what is overdoes, who are eligible to use, the minimum dose etc. After the inspector institutions approve the results, the drug is released to the market and consumers can access it.

Cortexin, Cerebolysin or other medications with similar benefits may have been given under control of doctor, or your respected and trusted doctor, someone in your environment, or someone you know whose child benefited may have suggested this treatment to you. However, just like for other alternative treatments, these benefits are all personal experiences. Remember that even tea can be experienced differently by anyone.

### There is no official information on side effects, the highest dosage, what can be expected in what dosage of these drugs that are imported without the control of the state. People that accept the use of unregulated drugs put themselves or patients that will use them at risk. If side effects show up as serious consequences like contractions or seizures, it would be both difficult to figure out this drug is causing them and doubtful how to manage the situation.

While being suspicious about treatment plans that medical doctors recommend just like every parent that want the best and the safest for their child, you should be careful about getting help/support/treatment from institutions and persons that do not have any responsibility on this matter. The main difference between medical treatments and alternative biological treatments that are served by outside-of-hospital institutions/persons is that these providers do not regulated in any way and you are the ones that are accountable. Parents making investment on these products/drugs/materials become a serious financial burden and put them in great deal of stress. That money can rather be spent on a proven and a safer method like education.

#### Cerebrolysin

Researches on Cerebrolysin increased in the last couple of years. A study states that Cerebrolysin and Risperidon (brands like Pisperdal, Rixper, Rileptid etc.) are used together on schizophrenia patients and good for intellectual functions like memory and attention. There are scientists that suggest they are also beneficial for neurological developmental disorders like autism and cerebral palsy, however there is not enough scientific proof except individual studies that the drug can be safe to use. It is known that non-indication (for the disorders and causes other than the drug got approved for), imported drugs are used without the approval of Ministry of Health. Remember that no medication targets the core of autism and Cerebrolysin is also not miraculous on the matter. **It is not recommended since there is not enough information on the drug’s effects and side effects.**

#### Cortexin

Cortexin is a polypeptide taken from the brains of cattle. This polypeptide is thought to stimulate and protect the nerve cells that are eroded or don’t work and recover brain functions this way. The Geropharm product is the official drug of a Russian company. They have the information on child type of it on their sites. These drugs are prescribed medicine that can be used by neonatologists (newborn experts), child specialists and child neurologists. It can be obtained from abroad by Turkish Pharmacists’ Association but it is possible if newborns have brain ischemia. Otherwise, **it is obtained illegally.**

Its alleged benefits include strengthening memory by activating brain metabolism, increasing defense mechanism of the brain, increase perception, increasing the skill of making quick and right decisions, activating speech center, decreasing epilepsy episodes, and decreasing attention deficits and hyperactivity. However, enough evidence on the effects and reliability of the drug is not found on other disorders other than newborn ischemia.

Besides the positive developments on children with autism who used the drug, some say it has no effect whatsoever, and they even encountered with side effects like contractions. It is applied in cures and with needles. There is no trustworthy scientific evidence on autism treatment and Internet scans does not give results. **Currently, it is not a known and proven treatment method, it is experimental.**
