+++
slug = "esleme-tr"
title = "Autism Training and Inclusion Studies in Turkey"
category = "Education"
language = "en"
author = "Korcan"
weight = 60
keywords = ["Eşleme", "Oyunu"]
draft = false
written_at = "2016-04-09"
[params]
available_at = "2017-10-03"
thumb = "https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/otsimo-en/img/Autism.jpg"
+++

# Autism Training and Inclusion Studies in Turkey

**Autism** has been seen as a different intellectual disability since 1944 and it has been decided that individuals suffering from this disorder needs different education and training different from current curriculum. This implementation found its place in Turkey in 1995 and Ministry of Education started special education studies for children with autism. To this date, many studies have been done, associations on autism have been founded, and a great deal of progress has been made in education of children with autism.


In consequence of all these sturdies, there are general principles were determined by Ministry of Education _for education of children with autism._ According to those, the education of every child with autism starts with the assessment of performance and every child with an assessed learning performance goes through a special education as soon as possible. Children with performance specifications close to each other are taken into education in groups of 2 or 4 to make inclusion more efficient.

Since social development of children with autism is important, trips, ceremonies etc. towards these can be organized. Children with higher skill levels in terms of social and academic fields should benefit from inclusive programs appropriate to their skills. During this inclusive education process, other students, class teachers, branch teachers and parents are also specially trained.

At inclusion schools, informative activities are carried out for school staff and other families. Problem behaviors seen in children with autism are accepted as a part of education and educations are served with appropriate methods to remove these problems as soon as possible. Autistic children that make progress are guided into determined targets and education and training proceed to the next step.

All methods, places, and materials included in education and training process are used focusing on the child. Also, all of these strategies applied in the process are prepared according to the child’s characteristics. In order to develop child’s communication skills and make him versatile, communication with visuals, signals etc. skills are acquired.

During the process of training and education, diagnostics done on children with autism are also of great importance. Aside from educational diagnostics, medical diagnostics are also carried out by specialists at hospitals with child and adolescent mental health and diseases clinics. After educational diagnostics of children are completed, they are guided and placed in necessary places depending on this diagnosis for them to have more efficient education lives.

If the child is being trained at _Autistic Children Education Centers (OÇEMs)_ independently and at the level of inclusion performance wise, an evaluation report is prepared to proceed with elementary education. This report is reviewed by Educational Diagnostics, Tracking and Evaluation team. If the result is towards that the child is eligible to benefit from inclusive education, necessary procedures start for the child to start part-time inclusion education.

*_Autistic Children Education Centers_ are special education institutions that exist within the structure of primary schools or work independently. At these institutions, children between the ages of 3 and 15 that have been diagnosed medically and educationally are subjected to individual education and inclusion programs.

Children that start part-time inclusion education are observed and subjected to evaluation. All developments children show socially and academically are evaluated by counselor, class teacher and branch teacher at inclusive education institution.

If the child is going to dependent _OÇEMs_, grade level is not repeated. In independent _OÇEMs_, children with autism are evaluated in terms of age and performance, and they are transferred between pre-school and primary school units.

Success of children that are educated in dependent _OÇEMs_ are evaluated according to the legislation of Ministry of Education on Primary Education Institutions. Children with positive outcomes of the evaluation are guided towards appropriate middle education institutions depending on their development characteristics and skills.

 

 

**Sources:**

http://mevzuat.meb.gov.tr/html/2567_0.html
