+++
slug = "esleme-tr"
title = "Building Skills with Tablet Computer Applications for Children with Autism"
category = "Education"
language = "en"
author = "Korcan"
weight = 60
keywords = ["Eşleme", "Oyunu"]
draft = false
written_at = "2016-04-09"
[params]
available_at = "2017-10-02"
thumb = "https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/otsimo-en/img/esleme-tr.png"
+++


# Building Skills with Tablet Computer Applications for Children with Autism

Thanks to opportunities the technology provides today, everything we need is accessible through our smart phones and computers that are at our disposal at any time. This convenience come in handy when sometimes we need a service and sometimes to access needed information in a fast and cheap way.

Tablet computers can successfully fulfill important tasks with the ease they provide to organize daily life. Through the Internet, we can obtain the information that otherwise would be impossible to get from our environment with just a few clicks. Also, many side features like charts, calendars, reminders and planners are designed to keep life organized for people.

To-do lists that are prepared in this digital environment turned into documents that are automatically updated and can be followed by more than one person. Charts and applications with visuals or texts take up an important role in education of individuals with autism.

For developing basic skills of individuals with autism, regular follow-up, managing educational and communicational programs, detecting deficits early and developing new methods to replace them are crucial. For this reason, technologies that connect global net are now irreplaceable aids in education process of individuals with autism. Besides, not only autistic individuals and their relatives consult to these aids. Individuals with autism frequently refer to these aids for the comfort of sustaining their lives by themselves and can easily continue their education programs with these applications. With this use of technology, individuals with autism can both maintain their daily lives and adapt to ever changing world.

Tablet applications with strong visuals aids provide education opportunities for individuals that use their sight more efficiently than other capacities. These tablet applications that mostly focus on matching and sorting practice provide vital data on the course of autism with the support of Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) and many analysis method stemming from this technique. These applications, which create important influence on the education of individuals with autism, also offer analysis reports directive for relatives and experts.

Skill development differs from one individual with autism to another. While some of them struggle with object matching, some others may be struggling with language development. Therefore, these applications that reach individuals with autism with different game types are convenient methods for early recognition of personal features of individuals with autism.

Tablet applications are engineered for persons with attention deficit to develop skills needed in their daily lives. These applications, which are totally suitable for both early-diagnosed individuals and individuals that are in their advanced ages, show positive results for individuals of every age, despite their childlike appearances. Individuals, whose intellectual practices are supported, feel much better with the self-confidence the success brings about.

In skill-developing trainings, verbal and nonverbal communication methods are utilized and mostly more output is achieved through trainings with games, just like all children. Tablet applications are carefully designed and built to teach individuals with autism the objects in daily life, have them comprehend and use general characterizations and acquire skills of expressing their needs. With visual aids and their attractiveness, these applications enable education programs to continue with success.

Additional to all these assistances, tables also have accessibility programs designed for individuals with limited communication ability. While providing physical auditory and visual support to individuals with limited expression ability, they also help autistic individuals of every age to acquire basic skills and develop language ability.

 

 

**Sources:**

http://www.tohumotizmportali.org/Haber/www.tohumegitim.com

http://www.tohumotizmportali.org/docs/modul-14_12.1-engelli-cocuklarda-iletisim-ve-oyunun.pdf

Etkinlik Çizelgeleri: Otizmli Çocuklara Bağımsızlık, Sosyal Etkileşim ve Seçim Yapmayı Kazandırma Binyamin Birkan

Otizmli Çocuklara Doğrudan ve Video Modelle Birlikte Sunulan Pecs Uygulamasının Etkilerinin Karşılaştırılması
